
# Vignettes

These vignettes have been written to demonstrate in more detail how common problems can be solved with LexOPS. Click on a vignette to find out more.



<!--html_preserve--><a style="text-decoration:none;color:black;" href="vignettes/control_for_map.html"><div class="code-link"><b>Higher Level Controls (control_for_map): </b>The control_for() function works well when your variable is 1-dimensional, with a single value for each word, as it is for variables like Length, Frequency or Concreteness. Things become slightly trickier, however, when controlling for distance or similarity values, which can be calculated for each umique combination of words (i.e. \(n^2\) values). One easy solution is to use control_for_map() to pass a function which should be used to calculate the value between any two words. Simple examples for controlling for orthographic and phonological similarity are available in the package bookdown site. This vignette demonstrates how to build your own function for control_for_map(), which in this example controls for semantic similarity.</div></a>
</br><a style="text-decoration:none;color:black;" href="vignettes/custom-data.html"><div class="code-link"><b>Using Data from Custom Sources: </b>The built-in variables of LexOPS are useful but not exhaustive. Thankfully, LexOPS can work with any suitable list of features. For this example, we will join the Lancaster Sensorimotor norms to Engelthaler and Hills’ humour ratings, and the in-built LexOPS dataset (LexOPS::lexops). We can then use this to generate stimuli with a visual rating by humour interaction, controlling for length and frequency.</div></a>
</br><a style="text-decoration:none;color:black;" href="vignettes/custom-levels.html"><div class="code-link"><b>Creating Custom Levels: </b>By default, LexOPS will split by a single variable for each use of split_by(), and will create items for each factorial cell. For instance, splitting by concreteness into 2 levels, and emotion into 3 levels, would result in 6 factorial cells. But what if we want to generate items for just 2 of these 6 factorial cells? We can do this by creating a factor/character vector column in our data which will represent suitability for each factorial cell. This vignette provides an example, where we want to compare concrete emotional words to abstract neutral words.</div></a><!--/html_preserve-->
